## TEMPUS CODING CHALLENGE

Here is my take on the Tempus Coding challenge. While I didn't get a chance to fully complete the app, I did implement the majority of the requested features.

### Building and Running the app:
To build, navigate to the directory root and run: `npm run install:all`

To run, navigate to the directory root and run: `npm start`

No need to boot up a mongo database because the app uses Mongo Atlas in the cloud.

Seeded Credentials:

#### Patient:
email: 'patient@test.com'
password: 'patient'

#### Doctor:
email: 'doctor@test.com'
password: 'doctor'


## Features:
####  Implemented features:
- Users can sign in
- Users can sign out
- User login uses hashing and salting
- Sessions
- System recognizes if user is doctor or patient
- Doctors and patients can view their own information
- Doctors can view patient information

#### To be implemented:
- Users can change their info
- System restricts viewing and updating user info on the server side
- Any form of reasonable security
- Redux state management

## App structure:

The app directory is structured by separating frontend and backend into client and server folders that effectively are isolated repositories. Upon building the frontend the backend would reference the index file generated by webpack to serve clients.

```
/ client
  / public (assets not processed by webpack)
    - index.html (html entry file)
  / src (assets processed by webpack)
    - assets
    / components (react components)
      / pages (route specific components...)
      / reusable (reusable components)
    - app.js (react root component)
  - index.js (react mounting script)

/ server
  / src
    / routes (api route specific files...)
      - index.js (combines seperate routes into a single router)
    - app.js (node entry file)
    - database.js (mongoose setup)
    - seedDB.js (seeds user data)
  - config.js (env specific configs)
  - index.js (ESM entry to allow module imports)
```

While this structure isn't ideal it does the trick for this example. In an actual app I would take the api keys and other sensitive info and move them to git-ignored .env files that are loaded based on the current environment state.

## Philosophy and what I would do differently:

I decided to use [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) to scaffold the client side. I chose this generator because it is simple, built by facebook, and has a lot of documentation.

For frontend styling I mostly used [Material UI](https://material-ui.com/) since it seemed to be a quick and popular choice. I'm much more familiar with SASS/SCSS based styling but this was a good opportunity to explore the equally popular CSS in JS approach.

For react logic I mostly followed the new functional components/react hooks structuring which is very new to me but a good learning experience. It seems to be the direction react is going so I'm glad I didn't use the legacy class structure just because I'm more familiar with it.

For the backend I build it from scratch using a few key libraries such as [ExpressJS](https://expressjs.com/) and [PassportJS](http://www.passportjs.org/). These libraries abstract a lot of boilerplate and functionality that I didn't want to implement myself. In particular I wanted to use an established hashing and salting system for password handling.

For the database I used mongoose because it is a powerful and fairly simple to use noSQL database. Although for this example a relational database may be more suited for larger datasets especially if lots of disparate tables/collections need to be combined with joins. A GraphQL layer would also be very helpful in that circumstance.

## Fun stuff:

The background map flies to the addresses of the users you click! In reality the geolocation isn't tied to the address but with a geocoding api it could very easily be implemented.

Hope you like it!
